>> Richard Feldman: So
let's talk about pipelines.
So let's say I have a list of numbers, 2,
4, 6, and
I want to call List.filter on it.
I say List.filter where I'm gonna
give it an anonymous function.
It takes an x, an x is less than 5.
In other words, I only want to keep
these elements if x is less than 5.
I also say, you know what?
Not only do I wanna do
that filtering operation,
I also wanna reverse it when I'm done.
So call List.reverse on the result of
List.filter passing that function and
that list.
So this is one way I can write this.
It's kind of a lot of
parentheses going on there.
This is another way I could write this.
These two expressions
are completely equivalent.
The difference is that this
second one has been written
in what is known as pipeline style.
So the way that pipeline style works
is you can think of it as similar to
Unix pipe.
So what it's saying is,
start with 2, 4, 6.
And pipe that to List.filter x,
where x is less than 5.
In other words,
take this thing right here and
make it be the last argument
to this next thing.
So List.filter this, and
then this becomes the final argument
that gets added on to the end here.
And then do it again,
take the result of that expression.
And pipe it to List.reverse.
So the output of the previous step
gets used as an additional argument to
the next step.
We could do that again, List.map negate.
In other words,
negate all of the numbers in this list
that we've been building up to so far.
So first do this.
Then filter it,
take that list, reverse it.
Take that list and
map negate over each of its elements.
We can keep going with
this as far as we want.
And take List.head of the results of that.
So grab the first one and
give us back a maybe.
We can do this as many times as we want.
The pipe is actually not
a special language keyword,
it's an operator that works as a function
that works because of partial application.
So essentially it relies on the fact
that List.filter passing this anonymous
function.
This expression right here to the right
of the pipe gives us back a function
that takes a list of numbers, and
then returns a list of numbers.
And then this next and then so
it gives it this listed number so cool.
Now we return a list of numbers,
pass that to List.reverse which
expects a list of whatever is and
returns a list of whatever's, and so
on and so forth throughout the pipeline.
So especially as you get more steps in
a sequence, this can be a nicer way
of writing out something like this,
than doing it with all the parenthesis.
Worth noting though that
also a lot of the time,
an even better solution to this is just
good old fashioned, giving things names.
Like saying, reversed equals and
then maybe taking the first
half of this pipeline, and
then breaking it up into two different
operations where the second one is calling
some functions on reversed which sort
of got us to that stage in the process.
This is something that comes up in
particular with what we're gonna learn in
maybe the section after next.
But for now it's enough to know that this
is just a technique we can use to express
the same thing.
By the way, when I said that this right
here was exactly equivalent to the above,
I really mean that it really is equivalent
as in, the Elm compiler will actually
rewrite this into the equivalent
of calling the functions directly.
So there's no overhead to doing this.
These two expressions will compile to the
exact same JavaScript no matter which way
you write it.
So basically you can safely use whichever
one you think is going to make the code
read better.
Sometimes you want to use a pipeline,
sometimes you don't, but
either way you're not gonna have any
performance pros or cons either way,
it's gonna be the same stuff.
Questions about pipelines.
All right, so to review.
We first talked about List.head, and
how we can call that on a series of,
let's say numbers.
And that'll give us back a maybe that
represents either the first elements in
the list.
Or if there was none, nothing.
We talked about maybe, and
how it has a type variable.
So, type Maybe v = Just v or Nothing.
Talked about how that v could be anything,
could be Val, Ellen,
whatever we wanna call it.
The important part is that it's lower case
indicating that it's a type variable,
and not a concrete type like we've
been dealing with up to this point.
We talked about the general
concept of type variables, and
how they can relate to one another.
So when we say head takes
a list of elements, and
then returns a Maybe element.
That means that whatever
type of list it is,
that's the type of Maybe
we're gonna get back.
And finally, we talked about pipelines and
how you can pipe things to
various different operations.
And it will take the result
of the previous step, and
pass it as an additional
argument to the next step.